So let's have a look at Route 53 routing policies.
So these are the routing policies that are available.
We've got the simple routing policy, which is a simple DNS response.
It's what we saw in the examples in the previous lesson where you have a DNS name and a record which
corresponds with an IP address.
It's simply saying, what's the IP address for this particular DNS name?
We've then got fail over.
This is a big one for the product, Sam comes up in lots and lots of exam questions.
So what happens here is you have a primary and a fail over target as long as the health checks are passing
on the primary.
Ralph 5:3 is always going to respond with an address for the primary, so all your traffic's going there.
Then if the health checks fail, it's going to automatically start routing connections to a secondary.
So those could be resources in another region, for example, and that could be your disaster recovery
plan.
We've then got geo location that uses the geographic location you're in to route you to the closest
region and you've then got geo proximity, which actually routes you to the closest region within a
geographic area.
So slight differences between those we then have licensee.
Another one that comes up quite a lot on the exams and make sure you understand this.
This is literally just directing you to the record that has the lowest latency, and we'll see some
diagrams in a moment which will make that clear.
Multi value answer returns several IP addresses.
You can think of it as a basic load balancer and then you've got weighted where you have relative weights.
You can say 80 percent traffic going to one record 20 percent to another.
So let's look at these and a bit more detail.
We got the simple routing policy, which just gives you the IP address for domain name.
So we've got Ralph, 53, somebody submitting a DNS query.
That's step one.
Then a response comes back, and the response will have the IP address and the area is then able to
connect to the resource.
Very simple.
We then got Weiss's routing.
In this case, let's say we've got two regions and we've got free resources.
And each of them has its own IP address.
And what we've done is we've created separate records and each of these records is for the same DNS
name, but it has a different IP address.
And then we have a wait now.
In this case, I've totaled these up to 100 just to make life easy.
If you actually look at the documentation, that's not the way it works.
The exam doesn't test you on that detail.
But this is just for the point of illustration.
So you got round 53, you've got your aquaria.
Your career gets a response from round 53 and then 60 percent of the traffic goes to this region, 20
percent goes to this particular resource here, and then another 20 percent goes to this other resource.
So that's a way that you can direct the volumes of traffic.
You can use this for various use cases.
You might use it when you're testing a new version of your application so you can use Route 50 free
for a kind of Blue-Green scenario.
You could also do it if you have more resources in one location, you want it more the traffic to go
there.
So as I say, these values are simplified.
In reality, you actually have to use an integer between zero and two hundred and fifty five.
You can also assign health checks to check that the resources are active.
And that means that if the resource is actually failing a health check, then none of the traffic will
be directed there.
So again, licensee right based routing is something that comes up on the exam a lot with licensee based
routing.
Again, we create multiple records with the same DNS name and they point to multiple values.
You see, I've used an application load balance here as well, so you can have application load balancers
as targets.
And these are all in different regions.
So we have Route 53 and we've got three different regions where we see two instances with a load balancer
and another C2 instance here.
So we have aquaria in Singapore.
Now what's going to happen for somebody in Singapore is because they're closer to AP Southeast one,
which is also Singapore.
They're going to get directed to this resource here.
So DNS is picking up the location of the query and sending traffic to the closest region.
We then have a query happening in Sydney and Sydney is closer to the app, southeast to region and therefore
gets directed there.
And then we have someone in New York and they're going to get directed to us east one.
So that's a way to optimize the performance of our application by ensuring that users around the world
are sent to the closest and the lowest latency implementation of our application.
Again, we can assign health checks as well, so fail over again.
This is a big one for the exam.
You create multiple records, one of them is primary and the other is secondary.
So we've got Route 53, we've got two regions here.
AP South East two is the secondary region and USC's one is the primary.
So all queries will always go to us is one as long as that record is healthy.
If the record becomes unhealthy, then round 53 will respond with the rest of the load balancer instead
in the second region.
So that's failing over one year location where mapping to a specific region based on the location of
the client geographically.
So we've got regions, we've got multiple regions here, ones AP South, east to the others.
USC's one.
So if somebody is in Mexico, they go to USC East one because that's actually the default, and neither
of these regions actually map closely to Mexico.
If someone's in New Zealand, well, that's Oceania.
So they get map to the ALP in AP South East, too.
Again, you can have health checks as well.
Those are optional.
Multi value, so this is where you have multiple values for an individual DNS.
So what happens is the client gets multiple responses, returned to them and then it kind of low balances
free.
So each time they check with DNS, it can give them a different response.
And the health checks will return to healthy records only.
So multi-family doesn't come out too much in the program.
As I said, mainly it's going to be the fight over housing policy and the licensee based routing policy.
So just know the use cases for those two.
And you should be well set.